oh my gosh it's hot lightly God episode
40 thanks mark for the help as I always
say Mark's the greatest come with
somebody can source you were so
energetic during me here it scared me
we're gonna talk about other stuff
there's a whole lot of it you you might
have heard about world of warcraft we're
not gonna be talking oh wait maybe a
little bit in the beginning but this is
a show all about the legends some
interesting stuff happened this weekend
at the LCS and probably some more
interesting stuff what's gonna happen
this coming weekend as we head into week
9 figure out who's gonna make it to
playoffs who's not how things are
looking
holy moly so much to talk about on
episode 40 of hotline link starting
right now
hotline League is brought to you by open
by HP here we are the show has started
Part C how are you I'm great dude
there's too much cool stuff happening in
the world right now yeah can you can you
elaborate sure so Wow came out on Monday
I've never played Wow before like I'd
done a bunch of 14-day trials and I fill
a shitload of mmo's in the past but I
played a game called EverQuest which was
like wow before Wow yeah and so when WoW
came out I already had like a lot of
those like moments that endear you to an
MMO so like to me Wow wasn't like this
crazy thing and I basically never really
gotten into it until this expansion I
decided to finally like try it out and
it's good I'm having fun with that
there's Nexus splits that just came out
the hearthstone expansion came out of a
week ago there's just so much going on
yeah I almost wonder if they shouldn't
have released the hearthstone expansion
on top of World of Warcraft it's
definitely weird especially since I
didn't feel like there was a big cross
promotion between the two yeah it
actually that would have been really
smart it would have been great to launch
them at the same time if you have been
able to say something like you know the
battle for Azeroth expansion pack for
hearthstone where it's like all about
the rivalry between the factions or
something but yeah I don't know they
were pretty disjointed yeah
well as always thanks to Mark mark for
joining me on episode 40 40 episodes
quite the achievement I remember I was
right around this time last year maybe
within a couple weeks or so that we
decided to do this show so
coming up on our one-year anniversary it
was right before worlds right I think we
did I think we talked about it at a
finals event I think we were in Boston
yeah talking about it yeah that's
probably right and then we did like one
or two episodes right before world
backed off and then you fucking left me
well yes uh anyway we don't have a a
co-host or guest tonight this is another
week without I guess because we really
we know why you guys come to the show
and it's for us it's not for anybody
else the feedback I've received all over
the place everyone hates it when I guess
is on because they're just never as
interesting and as fascinating and have
as nuanced opinions as myself a mark
they don't bring the energy in the
passion so we were just not doing a lot
anymore yeah yeah yeah I also just was
really upset with the amount of screen
time I was getting because Travis gets
all this time to talk about like the ads
and the promos and stuff so we're taking
what would normally be guest time it's
just gonna be me talking about anime
yeah you know so hopefully you guys
appreciate that know we had multiple
guests did you even did you I know you
know about Tony who we can talk about
who else was there there was Coby Oh
Coby bail yeah so last week Coby had
said that he'd be down to come on the
show there's really great at my my
thought process was that I've actually
set it up or tried to set it up so that
Coby and I could sit next to each other
and in here somehow and then Kobe said
that he wants to play on Monday I think
it was he said he wanted her Sunday he
said it's because well lunch this week
he doesn't want to such a typical rioter
quote unquote content creator response
to all those fucking guys let me let me
tell you something about riot
personalities and I don't I don't count
all those guys say they want to do more
stuff they get invited on talk shows and
what do they do they bail
yeah for games I don't want to hear it
anymore we're not we're not their
platform definitely don't just use them
for their vastly larger fan bases ok so
then then number 2 who pulled out a
couple hours ago was Tony
well mm-hmm you want to explain why his
girlfriend's birthday now you say that
and I'm sure I'm sure he wouldn't lie
but I'm looking at my battlenet client
right now and it says that he's in
dazzle dazzle or on tech Andris hey
don't check your battlenet for like the
next two hours for me though by the way
oh okay so I'm not a game so then and
then I hit up Kelby and he just said no
thank you
so that's why we don't have Kelvin so I
don't know if League of Legends is dying
but maybe this show no just kidding we
had a thousand in like a half people or
something last week with no yeah no no
no I know I'm just kidding it's just
funny I think wow it's just sucking all
the energy out of this week which is
impressive by the way how old is that
it's like 14 years old
I think it's 14 years old and it is able
to just it just is like a vortex that
everything gets swept into the week that
it launches and for quite some time
after I'm very curious to see what teams
have their performances affected this
weekend because of world of warcraft
because I I'm in a guild with a bunch of
other eSports na LCS folks are you in
that Gil Mark no I'm not in a guild
right now oh you should if you want to
sign me up I'll be taking applications
are you on psych Andria's no okay well
Raimondi emerald dream alright cuz I
want to roleplay well if you I'm a troll
if you want to play with the NA LCS
folks we're horizontal but I can see
who's playing and out of out of respect
I am I am NOT going to call it any names
I'm not gonna say who but I can see and
I know and I would have it'll be very
curious to see how people's performance
does this week
I think the point about like how the
game is like 13 years old or whatever it
is and still like pulling people
whenever it launches I expect that to
kind of like be the path that like I
just I consulted with some people
your year ago year and a half ago and I
said a similar thing will probably
happen with Lee we're like the game will
never like diet die but it could end up
a lot more cyclical versus like the I'm
playing this all the time but like a
Nexus blitz out and then like yeah
hopefully riot starts actually
publicizing this stuff better and they
just level of size Nexus blitz at all I
think they'd rather be fine I saw Daniel
declines post yeah Daniels England
posted it on reddit yeah like what the
fuck is that I mean good on him yeah not
missing the shuttle but sad that it's at
like right people are going out there
and being like hey guys art game mode
just launched you know what it is though
they're fucking terrified after clash
they are so afraid to talk about
anything that's coming out because of
what they did with clash you know yeah I
mean they had faker and pokey the two
biggest faces of League of Legends in
the West and Korea respectively and that
features on out I think that's the wrong
lesson to learn if that's why just don't
talk about anything don't hype ourselves
up at all on the other cell phones cell
phones to to read it when it's ready to
launch yeah you know then that's how
we'll find out about their second game
it'll just be marked Merrill aren't you
- no no it's some random guy like it's
just someone on the team who's like the
game is out and no one knows there's no
like client's guy found like hit by the
way guys like I'm an artist on that yeah
just wanted to say we launched a
fighting game yeah I don't know like
that's such the wrong lesson to me like
okay we had this really cool feature we
hiked it up appropriately everyone was
really really excited and you did
everything right but like deliver on the
product and then you're like you know
what we got wrong the marketing yeah
it's like what no no no yeah I don't
know it's crazy me anyways but that's
what I think riot will eventually be
like you'll be like its season 14 and
everyone will come back and try that the
preseason for a little while and stuff
like that and before we finalize I think
we should list out maybe some ideas for
what
topics could be for people calling in
because it's kind of a weird all over
the place week but the last thing I'll
say is that I I'm super happy to
announce that that you know people who
watch the stream people who watched a
lot there's always a support link in the
description it's not lists on the
support link but if you are on tie
conjure some want to give me gold I now
take that as a home alright mark what
should we talk about on the show what
like what call it suggestions for
callers we got that 10 cent riot article
that came out what was that one
oh that there's beef yeah yeah that
there's beef they talk a lot about how
essentially riot riot realizes that they
fucked like riot never want to turn the
Legends into a mobile game then $0.10
turn League of Legends into a mobile
game and it makes a shit ton of money
and the report allegedly says that riot
has now decided that they realized they
fucked up by not turning into a mobile
game so interesting stuff there I don't
think we need to get into like they name
the salaries of mark and Brandon which I
think we don't we don't really need to
get into but it was kind of interesting
and and just sort of it's certainly one
the most interesting thing from that
article is that allegedly reportedly
there was a meeting that took place at
riot headquarters earlier this year at
March where basically it was announced
like hey we are on track to be losing
money if we keep spending the way we are
because we're losing players and that
kind of thing and certainly right has
now released a statement everybody can
go find it and basically any place where
this has been reported where they sort
of dispute the the scale at which
numbers have decreased player bases
decreased saying that mostly it is just
the decrease came from China but anyway
I think for a while it has felt like
there is some pullback on the spend for
eSports and certainly this is one reason
why it could be so anyway we got that to
talk about if people want to talk about
that a really easy one is it's week nine
so teams will start getting eliminated
from the playoffs some teams already
have
it's c9 and oh sorry CLG and gold
Guardians aren't going to Worlds yep
they're officially clutch gaming might
still make it to world or gauntlet
through the gauntlet but that also
depends on people not getting enough
points to overtake them yeah
so that's somebody talking about who do
you think will finish from playoffs how
much do you believe in see 9s run will
TSM be able to make it or will they miss
playoffs for the first time in forever
yeah like literally forever no sand Bros
has a 7 mop roster rule or 7 Ross 7 man
roster change we can talk about that
there's a lot to talk about I think yeah
we can talk about Reaper decision to
swap his mid laner and jungle around
everyone shit on him and then they swap
actually worked out super well so if you
want to talk about any of these things
and you don't know how to because you've
never seen the show before what we have
is a discord and in this discord as I'm
spamming it in twitch chat right now
you're gonna want to join up there when
you get there there is a pleb calls and
Club calls to voice Channel that you're
gonna need to join and once you're in
there you can mute yourself and then you
join deep or in the club topics text
channel you're gonna type out whatever
it is that you want to talk about on the
show today and I'll be reading that I'll
be getting your takes please make sure
you include your opinion on it so don't
just say I want to talk about who's
gonna make playoffs say I think this
thing will make playoffs and then we can
start talking about that if I like your
topic I'll pull you into the waiting
room when it's your turn I'll come and
do a quick Mic Check before I pull you
in to the actual call to discuss it with
Travis and I and if you are a sub wood
you can substitute which channel very
helpful by the way really appreciate
when you do that you can sync your
discord and your twitch which allows you
access to C sub chat a sub topics
channel where you can drop your
questions in your topics gives you a
little bit of an advantage over other
folks because while we won't pull
exclusively from subs there's a little
less chatter there we'll check both so a
couple other things that we didn't talk
about Nexus blitz is something like
talked about you brought it up earlier
I think we can you know something to
talk about we are I saw there was a post
a while ago about the fact that we still
don't know a venue or schedule or
ticketing for worlds which is in less
than 50 days and sort of the negativity
that's taking place on the subreddit is
the top thread right now is about how
people don't hate League but they hate
the subreddit which is somewhat in
response to the fact that like there's a
million threads about YX content creator
decides they don't like League or X
content creator or performer player or
whatever loves League and then also the
Phoenix thing with echo fox which I
don't have a huge opinion on but oh yeah
that was after the show last week right
yeah that's a good one so all these
topics and more if you have your own
feel free to write it in we're trying to
feed the the machine right now and give
you guys some ideas on stuff to talk
about
let's see well we are pulling some
people just want to give a shout out to
Billy Bob 777 one who Reis up for six
months is loving the play maker series
you're putting out Travis great job
thank you really enjoy that series
myself I'm really proud of it
ryoga's cheeky 99 a gig a sauce or a CA
0s real foxy gives us how to mark
congratulations mark on being on a nine
month subscriber Rayner TV reset for
seven months this is howdy friends your
fure reso or subbed and KW salt resolved
for seven months systems we going back
to money soon can't watch on wednesdays
yes hopefully we should be back on
mondays soon mark you want to go fish
somebody out uh yeah give me one more
second reading a couple of them just
poem later
all right we always pull in the
beginning I don't want to some people
show up late all right mark is off
pulling off the neck so I pulled into
the waiting room is currently muted
please ergo Burroughs is unmuted now he
is but don't yet make sure if you're if
you're in the waiting room don't have
your stuff needed okay to be so earlier
qu Jude pr1 subbed by the way I just got
back from Vegas I was out there Travis
cafard industry's having our company
retreat me and bread and some friends
and I had the worst luck ever I was
terrible so hopefully this show goes
better burger Bros is on the show so
it's already gotten better burger bros
very calm from Lawrence Kansas that is I
don't
is that near Marian it's more near
Kansas City it's like in between Kansas
City and Topeka okay well I'm glad to
have you on the show what do you want to
talk about st. I want to talk about just
eSports in general like I um but it's my
personal belief that going into this
year is actually gonna be the hardest
time for eSports
you have so many different games vying
for that top spot you know you have for
tonight you have pub g-league dota all
these different games will want these
fully-fledged like eSports to go around
them and either it's gonna strangle each
other out like weeds or they're all
gonna flourish as sports teams do now so
I think this next year's gonna be a very
trying time for eSports in general
gotcha
so and and you think it's just because
there's too many or I'm sorry I'm just
trying to understand our hone in a
little bit more like what are this like
maybe you can give an example of
something that you think is gonna hurt
or struggles but make eSports Michael
the oversaturation that you see in like
what was it three or four years ago you
saw the oversaturation of survival games
you know zombie survival games and I
think that might happen with eSports
because of how many different eSports
they're trying to push yeah developers
see it as this huge money-making
opportunity which it is but now when you
have so many like
Rainbow six siege is an up-and-coming
one I mean it's enjoyable to watch
you've got League you've got dota you've
got all the old ones and it could just
end up strangling each other out so it's
interesting I would have been much more
in line with her thinking a year ago in
fact a year ago I was it was less about
the oversaturation more about the the
concerns I had that there was like a
bubble essentially right that like there
was the valuations of everything was too
high to support basically the cost
people were spending on teams and
players and all that stuff
and I actually still think there's a
bubble but I actually think it doesn't
matter because of because of ironically
the thing that you are saying right now
because last year at this time I was
like ah leagues kind of plateauing and
everything else looks like it's either
plateaued or staying around the same I
had real skepticism but overwatch League
especially at the prices that Blizzard
was talking that stuff around it
I still by the way have those concerns
but everything in the past nine months I
think actually the oversaturation which
may be I don't think it's over
saturation but just that the sheer
amount of stuff that's coming up we I
think can drive this stuff for like
overwatch league hasn't flopped I think
there's still questions there but they
did a really good job with their launch
and they were able to sell sponsors in
which was fantastic
I think the advent of fortnight and
ninja has brought so much mainstream
sponsorship and viewers and interest and
conversation into the space in the past
year and that stuff tends to trickle
down right so like if you can't if you
want to go sponsor fortnight and there's
no like League there yet to sponsor and
you decide you can't get into overwatch
league because Blizzard wants too much
and then riot is mucking around you
can't get the sponsorship there because
that's what they're doing then you go to
like Rainbow six each right and now
Rainbow six siege got something because
like fortnight is big and interesting so
I I I am less concerned about that stuff
I think and I actually think that 2018
has been sort of a rebound year in my
mind and that I expected this to be like
the flop year and maybe we still have a
flop here in the future where a bubble
bursts or there's just less interest but
for right now I think literally just
like fortnight and all that stuff is
driving so much interest in engagement
in the space set I think we're okay and
that includes league of legends by the
way a little worried about the future of
league still in terms of sponsorship in
revenue especially because it feels like
rights trying to hold the eSports team
maybe accountable for some of their
spending but I am NOT I am NOT I'm still
very bullish on eSports
I don't know mark if you have any
thoughts I mostly agree like I think to
your point about like the plateauing
that seem to be happening like there was
a massive explosion in 2015 around a
number of games that I personally like
enjoyed so like obviously League was was
at the pinnacle in 2015 I look back and
I was looking at like the most uploaded
threads on the subreddit ever and some
of them are like a foot control mimi
ones about like you know the discus
50,000 up votes whatever mayoral stuff
on april fools and then it was like a
tyler 1 getting unbanned post and in
like the third highest post of all time
with CLG vs TSM finals and so like from
that perspective i can see where it's
like oh man we're trending down as
league esports and it's like it's kind
of true but i think to tribes this point
like it's not like the the viewers are
leaving the market which would be a much
worse thing yeah I think eSports fans
stay eSports fans and so and yeah and
quite frankly the the amount of options
in the space being overwatch or
fortnight or Rainbow six give people
some place to go if they decide that
they're tired of League or they decide
they're tired of csgo or dota or
whatever yeah I mean so sorry I don't
I'm not too worried about getting
strangled out though like I can agree
that like if you're a fan of one of
those ones that saw a Thai explosion in
2015 like csgo likely like melee
although like those were the big three
ones I got really into like hearthstone
is a similar way like a lot of those
have trended down in recent years for
shining your newer toys but that's just
as far as I can tell the general life
cycle of competitive video game well I'm
sorry what we're gonna say burger bro so
well would you guys say that fortnight
and those battle royale game
can actually be implemented as eSports
yeah definitely I did you see the Pepsi
event that they did a little bit ago
yeah the one in Berlin and they are like
a year ago I mean I watched both of them
but practically I've never felt like a
battle royale is gonna be the same sort
of eSport as League counter-strike
overwatch Rainbow six siege even
hearthstone Starcraft all these because
of the scope of it and how much more it
actually is down to what spawns in that
house you go into that's a completely
different conversation yeah yeah I think
that's okay though if it's different I
think it's good thing actually if it's
different I think it'll force innovation
and the eSports pace in a different way
so and I think I I think that a lot of
the fortnight events that I have seen
that are wildly different are incredibly
entertaining so much so that I've been
trying to cover it and my youtube
channel claims me because they don't I
don't know I don't know why the league
player base is so anti a fortnight or
something but they League it's all older
people and we don't like seeing I don't
know it's the exact same reaction that
Starcraft you had to leave this is it's
literally like sort of a defensive miss
the Big Brother mentality hey you're
copying me now stop that no no not like
they're copying is so it's a flash in
the pan it's it's a thing for now you
know like it won't last how many times
have I heard that league's gonna die
already was it overwatch was at that and
like they they become very dismissive of
other things and like I can't believe
how dismissive the league subreddit is
to fortnight yeah it I mean it's a very
popular game it's kind of starting how
League started with this new
free-to-play game than anyone can yeah
it's the exact same as league and that's
why you never had to be scared before
was cuz like overwatch wasn't
threatening League because you had to
pay like $50 to play the game or
whatever it was and it would didn't it
like it had a massive marketing budget
behind it fortnight came out of nowhere
took everyone by storm free to play a
lot of the generation of new players is
word of mouth hype and stuff like it's
it's pretty similar that's why I think
if you're League fan who thinks that
look if you do think
for tonight's cannibalizing league then
is worth being afraid of yeah I would
agree well thank you so much for letting
me come and save my piece Thank You
burger Bruce keep holding it down in
Lawrence Kansas I I will thank you all
right moving on to the next caller
yep see a couple other things coach it
pr1 subbed slicky MacDougall's soaped
richie dick 95 subbed I experienced it
for six months keep that primary premium
content coming
Christabel hi Julie reset for nine
months says hi
KH or Kate qk q conley subbed Ramah 39
reset for seven months and says worlds
venues i don't know sergeant muffin
hammer i'll Recep so Brandon Kearney
bards Thresh flights continuing load
that person Bart Starr Sansa sub special
Mizzy to 2k11 there's a 2011 how do you
want it pronounced k 11 2011 you're a
little muffled do k 11 to Caleb okay
I've turned you up all the way can you
are you closing right now yeah just go
for that
what do you where you come from New
Jersey New Jersey okay what do you want
to talk about in the show tonight and
Izzy it seems to be an issue in the ALCS
how pros are getting a little shafted by
their teams because their contracts
don't have like some sort of clause or
something in there that can protect them
but none of them seem to care about
their contracts or care about the
Players Association so I don't see how
they can really complain about getting
shafted when they didn't care about
their contract or the Association that's
supposed to help them defend themselves
from these things this is this is such
an open and shut call for me this is so
easy you uh I don't know how Marc's
gonna feel about it but so funny because
that was my reaction right so this stuff
went down with Phoenix and in the reddit
thread actually people were calling me
out for like not covering the stuff
enough for like
demanding answers from other echo fox
players about how phoenix have been
treated and stuff and look this shit in
like 2013 2014 even 2015 like I got it
you know like it sucks when teams were
taking advantage of players there was no
infrastructure there to support them
certainly the infrastructure is just
coming into place now and a lot of
people are under like shitty old
contracts but like I just don't I don't
have to I who I think generally very big
player to advocate I just don't have
very much pretty now because I think a
lot of this stuff is just you know like
one people should be talking about
agents because I think half the agents
suck out there you know and they will
pitch you in these shitty situations or
they won't have your back or they'll
just be looking they're juggling like
freaking half the LCS in some cases and
how good is the quality of service that
you're gonna get there and and to you
know you you just have to be smart about
this stuff people can find legal
representation
even if you don't have an agent like the
pros have been making enough that they
could go figure out how to get a lawyer
for a while to cover this stuff like
80,000 a year or something 75 it's up to
75 but like the vast majority of them
are making more than that so I don't
know mark you're anything I pretty much
agree I think for Phoenix in particular
on his point like he apparently I
understand the mentality of like oh fuck
I'm not getting an ax from putting your
phone down like if you watch the NFL
Draft or something it's pretty frequent
that like guys who are like dropping
from what their projected thing was like
freak out and they'll like if they're at
home and they're not actually like on
the stage area if they're at home
sometimes it like they leave their house
and they stop watching they put their
phone down like let my agent handle it
like I'm over this like fuck it like
they get so nervous and maybe that's
what Phoenix was feeling that's why he
wasn't checking his phone proactively
enough but like at the same time he did
receive the message about it like I
don't think it was cool of the team to
drop them off like six hours or whatever
twelve hours before the deadline that
that does he
awful but like there was nothing built
to prevent that at all for even from
riot side so yes I think it's the kind
of thing we're like you can expect all
three to be better like I think riot
should and probably will look at that
rule and be like alright that's not
really fair that people can do this so
they'll probably implement in the next
rule set something spaced out more
players can you know be more on top of
checking your phone and also let you
said the contract thing and businesses
don't have to be scummy like there's
plenty times where people do go out of
their way to help their players and
people have done that in the past this
is clearly not a time that that happened
all that said though I completely agree
like I never get mad well I should say I
never get mad but like I'm not upset for
the most part when a business acts like
a business like businesses are extremely
self-interested and will do anything
that's not illegal or against the rules
of whatever they their space that are
occupying in to put themselves ahead
like that's actually the expected
behavior for me
not what I would get upset about even
though it's sometimes morally dubious
yeah the only struggle there is that and
I and that's my expectation to it's just
funny because the team's don't
communicate that right
the team's love to and I've seen this
time and time again with a variety of
different owners some still mean I'll
see some gone they all like to saying
that they're all about the players right
like oh I love these guys like I'm all
about it like we're a very player or
friendly organization etc I mean echo
Fox admittedly has said this there seems
to be like this in the past but when
push comes to shove like that's not
always the way it's gonna go and we
don't I guess we don't we don't really
know the both sides of the story right
like echo fox could say though we were
working behind the scenes at I'm like
certainly with the media saying there
was a 103 side and media society and I
don't know where we ended up but I I
don't know I was just not I'm not
shocked because and maybe it's just cuz
like the fan base is kind of naive on
how teams actually operate and how where
their interests are and I and I think
that the players I think it's just sort
of like anyone surprised
by this is probably just a little naive
right and then sometimes it's the
players right like I don't know god I've
had multiple let's play it this way I
have had multiple players tell me that
like they have a really good
relationship with their owner and they
trust the owner right and so they'll say
like oh yeah like I didn't go out and
find out how much other people were
making because like this person is not
gonna screw me and this is not just by
the way like I think has happened with
players I've had friends across the
industry who have the ability to
negotiate whether their talent or their
a coach or there's somebody else
whatever and they just sort of pit trust
in and it's like that's fine I get that
but like at the end of the day like they
have their own motivations you have
yours so and and I think also was it an
arrow somebody and twitch said a second
ago was saying just drive the salaries
up yes
so that's another thing right like
people well I think this is part of the
struggle to admittedly this is where I
think the Players Association should be
helping you have agents out there and
for them it's just all about driving the
salaries up and that like a player who
suddenly got their salary doubled
they're gonna think their agent is
killer but like what is actually in that
contract have you signed away like the
the PO Beltre horror story about him
signing away his like likeness and that
where all of is that for infinity to
winter fox you know how many people
still remember that but like it's it's
not just about the money and how much
they can get you even though that feels
really exciting like well I'm gonna make
twice as much
it's about all this other stuff too so I
know works like save any money by
dropping those players though like did
they like not have to pay them for the
rest of this so it's our decision we
don't know their contracts but I would
assume that when you drop a player you
don't have to pay them right I think in
the good much like again this is me
speaking out of ignorance cuz I don't
know their contracts and I quite frankly
I don't know what's in a lot of the LCS
contracts because there's little to no
transparency around that stuff but you
know maybe there's a severance package
associated with it maybe there's some
sort of option
and where the you know think it dropped
they get some money on the on the
downside of it or something I don't know
but I don't mark a few have any take I
was gonna say that also yeah mostly that
the other thing I was gonna through him
was also like the whole trusting people
and I think what a lot of people too is
like they meet someone in like a high
point or like when they're there
trending up and that person's like seems
nice and trustworthy and then like its
when shit hits the fan that you see
people's like real colors or whatever
you want to say and so like I have know
a lot of people who have when things are
going well rushed into thinks it's like
oh yeah yeah we'll figure this out later
I mean you don't figure it out later
things stop being fine and then it gets
really really really messy and that's
not even like an esports thing that's
that's a life thing exactly a lot of
people for instance you know i saw mark
hears on the analyst desk pulled him
into a show at yahoo pulled him onto
this show the moment mark is not you
know the reddit audience turns against
him he doesn't mean you know his social
falling sighs well he's off the show
alright he's only here because he's
trending up as soon as omen drops this
show I'm out of here
yeah exactly the bargain I this is all
just a convenience thing and that's how
that's how the world works by the way I
don't know the last time I got lunch
with Travis actually that's that's
that's the once I moved for some reason
once I moved it we just both felt like
we were too far away from each other
it's so tragic how la is like what
you're 15 minutes oh fuck that yeah yeah
well because every 10 feet you walk in
create creates another five minutes of
commute yeah so anyway that's it's it's
hard an easy to have too much of a
discussion around the stuff because and
your take is if we just I think Mark and
I just kind of agree with it it's it's
kind of everybody's fault and thus no
one should be shocked I don't know if
you have any final thoughts before we
send you back from New Jersey players
gotta like give a shit if you ever want
to not get screwed yep I agree thanks so
much have a good one
and we we Shaolin are we got another one
oh good call
well we're not showing out instead we're
talking about an amazing partner all
right
a party's an opportunity for viewers
it's it's truly is an opportunity this
to listen to this conversation it's a
conversation we're gonna have about omen
by HP our sponsor for the show we
appreciate their support so much they've
been around for with us for quite some
time as well I think we're running
around like II sit six seven eight
months since the start of the year
basically like the longest sponsorship
I've ever seen I think yeah these party
sports sponsorships they turn a lot
these guys we've been working with them
for a while so I I just want to say
thank you to them for their support of
the show one thing that they announced I
believe it was today I'm gonna take a
look I'll link this in the twitch chat
for you guys and and if you're watching
the mod that's not much of stuff on 200
today yeah they announced omen squad
which is an initiative to work with some
streamers across across the scene of
various sizes some of you may know I'm
go ahead and put their their link
they're announcing it and let's watch
that some of you may know some of the
folks that are a part of this there's
some league streamers cars art who used
to work at riot and does a bunch of
stuff he's a friend of mark and I he's
on there as well as some some other
folks so that's their new thing they've
got 14 new streamers that are part of
this program and it's just kind of cool
to see them working you know a lot of
similar to what they do with this show
like we're not a Riot Games but they
worked with us anyway because they want
to support our our show here let me see
if I can there we go
here's their tweet they want to support
what we're doing and I think it's cool
to see them supporting you know not just
big names in the space but also some
names of people are working on growing
their streams that are not ninja and
it's kind of cool to see that so anyway
we're
we appreciate their support of us and
also of the rest of the community if you
want to support us you can go say hi to
them on Twitter at omen by HP we reply
or retweet or like the tweet that I've
dropped into chat there and tell them
that you appreciate their support of the
show and really I mean out we all
appreciate those guys so yeah and if ten
people don't reply to that tweet
they appreciate omen then we're gonna
pause the show until that happens yeah
so go out there and do that alright
we're gonna assume you guys all did and
we'll move on well thanks again I'll
take a few minutes for their sponsorship
mark you want to go find a new new
friend right slepen reset for seven
months he says it's about time you
listen to doublelift and continue to not
give us bttv emotes I will little Kosh
I'll reset performance four months of
quality content thanks for all the work
hard work Travis and Mark roaming 21
Jordan at eight months its lost 62 just
real big meme rye 90 Gila Pete but what
color gets us up to joker can't spell
and we have our next caller whose colic
how's it going color luck how are you
pretty good where you call from I think
you're not gonna believe this but I'm
calling for Lawrence Kansas Lawrence
Kansas yeah I know how that colored to
perform it was from Lawrence we have
some food okay I'm looking up how big
the city is right now I mean it's home
in the Jayhawks
you know Kansas University yeah my
grandfather is from as a Jayhawks man
cuz he graduated from Kansas University
okay so there's approximately 95,000
people there it's not that small of a
city but it's not that it's not that big
it's kind of crazy to get to back to
back or not almost back to back so
kahla what do you want to talk to us
about on the show tonight yeah I can I
put this into the chat but how does
somebody become a coach for an eSport
do they have to be an expert player do
they have to know the owners
I'd like there's plenty of good
potential coaches out there and maybe
even some from you know traditional
sports but they just you know can't get
into the scene because how you gonna
rate a coach great great topic we just
lot why it's a mark topic neons at the
beginning of this I don't know that
means I pulled this because obviously I
mean talk about it and good timing to
since it seems like an ALCS needs some
coaches because they're firing all the
ones that exist in it so mark
take it away cuz he used to be a coach
right so I not only was a coach who got
hired with no previous connections but I
also hired a bunch of people with
similar set up in the reality is that
you need to be very diligent and like
following all the team's Twitter
accounts and stuff like that
finding their business emails and you
have to be very persistent in like
reaching out to them and then what you
really need is a good quote unquote good
body of work to like represent yourself
to them much like an application to any
other job you need a good resume
portfolio in particular and like for me
my portfolio was like I love CLG you so
I did some really detailed scouting
reports for CLG you sent them to them
they never really got back to me about
that like yellow Pete responded one time
but then when TR it was cursed at the
time announced that they were doing
player tryouts I sent Steve an email
asking if they're doing coaching staff
tryouts or anything like that
he brought me on as an analyst because I
had all this like work I've previously
done on CLG you that I just sent him and
that was enough to like get my foot in
the door and then I worked really hard
from there and that's a lot of I think
what it is is if you have a nice body of
work and you send it to somebody and
you're able to get their attention
you'll probably get some kind of shot
online or something and through that you
can kind of prove yourself and work your
way up the ladder and I think that's how
a lot of people do it if you're
obviously if you're X Pro player that's
a much easier way to get your name out
there and get people's attention some
people have gone from called collegiate
coaches so CLG academies coach Matthew
Perez he was a higher rated player for a
little while
started coaching at collegiate and start
coaching in Academy he look
what no he doesn't he looks like hotshot
gg's you nerd Travis you're white you
know like white people we don't all look
at it sorry I mean it's a really yeah
anyways Gabriel's Zoltan Johann or
invert whatever want to call him here's
another guy who got a certain collegiate
before going into Academy so there's a
lot of routes now compared to back in
the day where you're just hoping that
someone would for the love of God notice
you and there was like when I started I
was one of the first Western living
analysts like I think I might have been
the first cuz there was a yeah anyways
back in the day there was there's no
there's no like market for and now it's
pretty standard I have one suggestion
I'm looking right now what Oh at the
pictures of him yeah he doesn't look
like hotshot at all bro it's a
universally agreed upon that he looks at
contract I have one suggestion though on
how not to get a coaching job do not do
not message me if you want a coaching
job because this is actually happened
quite a bit
people will message me and say hey I saw
you interviewed probably this happened
this week saw you interviewed prolly I
want to coach for him please tell him
that and then I'm like well I'm not
gonna I just like that conversation go
hi this random person deemed me and
wants to coach for you and he'll be like
thanks but let's just don't I can't help
with that but yeah I mean I think it
goes with you know we get calls all the
time about it's great that we had
somebody who can call it who wants to
call in and talk about coaching and how
to get a job there because we've got
mark on the show but I think generally
speaking a lot of it is just like be
persistent like with any Japanese sports
be persistent keep your eye out for
opportunities develop a body of work
even if you are not working with anyone
like great basically essentially a
portfolio of like here's you know the
studies that I've done on these teams
and scouting reports or you know drafts
or insight that I have if you are a
writer you write some stuff if you
do hosting if you want to produce like
you just create the video stuff it's the
same sort of thing with all that you
know just it's a lot of like be
persistent and make sure you have
something concrete that you can show
people yeah and definitely don't try and
lose Travis no one respects his opinion
on game knowledge and so they're like
Travis is vouching for you it's actually
probably working against you
Kollek does that answer your question
that is perfect very good thank you so
much for the call yeah thanks for having
you guys you know we're moving along to
the next caller I want to shout out to
public color gifted us up to Joker can't
spell public color gets a subject Jo
champ Berserker reset performance and
says I Travis believe T of TSM won't
make it to Worlds we're banned from
talking about TSM on the show for a
little a bubble call it gets us up to
matei Thank You bubble color for all the
gifts in eSports law or is it esports
slaw I don't know which one they sent a
twitch crime sub so thank you so much
eSports Xpress or eSports Express Chris
is on the show Chris what a easy name
such an easy name what were you calling
from oh you've been on the show before I
was on the show once before where are
you calling from home I mean State
College where state called PA okay yeah
sorry sounds like yeah okay okay
State College sounds like like it's it's
such a generic name yes
it's very confusing anyway it sounds
like a mean like someone would say like
you know like college unlike those
shirts they oh yeah yeah yeah that's
like I live in State College
Chris what do you want I'm talking about
teams that are looking to make playoffs
like black Western optic they're
performing very well because not because
they are very good mechanically but they
have good macro and they avoid a team
cohesion but in North America that's not
good enough to get them to win the split
and that's why any teams are good
mechanically are gonna go to Worlds and
be bad at Worlds because they don't have
good team cohesion in macro
mark I pretty much I don't know if
they're macros better than the other
teams but I agree that I don't think
there's any real chance for opticore fly
quest to take maybe they can turn an
upset in quarters but I don't think
they'll get past that I don't think
there's any chance to seems to make
finals even though everything has been
so inconsistent this split I mean it
wasn't only and it wasn't until recently
mark are you distracted by Twitter you
know I'm listening to you it wasn't
until recently it was more consistent
the top three teams solidified
themselves or whatever and even then
it's like top two because i know Fox is
tanking since God coach and arrow left
yeah so I mean that's I that's my
question is like me is it is it can we
really count these guys out in playoffs
because I think this split has been
anything but predictable and so having
crazy upsets in the playoffs would just
be a continuation of it even though I
know we're switching from a best to one
format to a best of five well you know I
would say one thing I did mention was
that I think that the problems with
macro versus mechanics is that teams
will have players who can just have the
super high points in mechanic's like
some day or you can just solo carry a
game no matter how well the enemy team
has been playing as like a team you had
those games and the teams with good
mechanical players like someday even
though they're the team buddy have a
good key in cohesion some days just
gonna win that game 400 thieves no
matter what happens so it's kind of
funny and maybe a little
counterintuitive because usually what
people say is like as the game as you
get to playoffs the games slow down and
like people it's like this effect that
like as stakes get higher the game gets
quote-unquote slower for the most part
like in scrims everyone's fucking crazy
it's nonstop action you get on stage
suddenly everyone's a lot more calmer
and you get to playoffs and everyone's
like a lot more like thoughtful about
the plays they're going for and so you
would think you know in a setting like
that that macro would become more
important and in the case it does but
that random stuff if you have we
quote unquote weak mechanical players or
lye cleaners whatever want to call it
that also gets exacerbated because
you're just in like more laning
situations so over the course of a
five-game series like in a best of one
you can like get lucky get a lead
something happens you have a good level
one and then you can use your good macro
from there but if you don't have like a
power point on the map that you can
usually use to try and like build your
leads it becomes really hard to like
reliably win a best-of-five unless like
you really are that much better than the
other teams at macro and I don't think
fly quest and optic are that much better
than TL if at all or 100 thieves for
that matter
so you should optic and fly quest fans
just feel sad no I think they like they
still have a chance I just I just don't
if they win it will be because you get
these like long grindy 40-minute game
they out macro their opponents to
victory best-of-five like I think optic
having their like weird cheesy pics
quote-unquote cheesy pics experimental
pics will be what gets them wins not and
maybe those pics lead to macro like the
your pic obviously is weird and then
like at some point it becomes a 4-1 that
you have like hard for one on and then
like technically that is their macro
that's that's winning them the game but
I would still put it more on that your
pic or whatever the pic is that they're
doing with them the macro and so in that
sense like if optic wins and upset
somebody I wouldn't say it's macro I
would say they had an interesting read
on the meta or something hmm
chances that they can do they have a
better chance in gauntlet ah yes and I
think the reason would be any team that
like wants to get to Worlds and like get
shit on and playoffs or something some
sometimes they come into the gauntlet
with a bad mindset so like if hundred
thieves somehow get like no out and
semies and have to play the third fourth
match or something cuz like echo fox
tore them a new one and then like I
don't know something like that happens
who knows like I could see that leading
to a situation where like those guys go
mental boom so like I think gauntlet has
more mental boom situations yeah and
then play office
yeah yeah like like even even though
when I was there TL in season five like
we got third both times in a row but
like by the time gauntlet had roll up
around like c9 got really really hot and
we were really really cold and they just
smashed us and everyone else in the
gauntlet even though I'd say player
strength wise we were way better than
them yeah does that answer your question
Chris yeah and one thing I was also
saying was that I think that because of
the way that playoffs works where you
have teams with John more pressure names
with mechanics because you have more
games at play that because those teams
win compared to teams that have better
macro and I team to better worlds
because other teams also have those good
mechanical players so you no longer win
games based off mechanics you have to
win him off Matt quality team set better
macro I would somewhat agree with that I
think it's a combination of both like if
you're a team like TSM let's say on the
older days and they're reactive and they
get to Worlds and like the people that
they're trying to punish on plays are
suddenly much better like your attempt
to punish them they don't make as many
misplace and that kind of stuff so I
think it gets long to like just play
styles well your season I was actually
thinking 2016 TSM we're like they won
because they were super aggressive and
good in name and then they go to Worlds
and everyone's just as good as them so
they don't get the leads to the years
together yeah that that happens to like
it can really depend on I'm like what
strange dude you're talking about like
yeah obviously doublelift
at Worlds wasn't smashing everybody in
Lane but they had a lot of games where
they went mid to late even or ahead and
couldn't close out so that one that
grows well here's my prediction I think
we're gonna get Cinderella's story this
year in North America Oh baby I think
that a team that is not echo Fox TSM oh
my I don't know maybe there's like a fox
looking really weak or whatever but
that's not Team Liquid hundred thieves
you know one of the usual suspects will
make it through
probably through gauntlet and then
everyone will expect them to be the
worst-performing North Americans
at Worlds and they will somehow make it
to at least quarters maybe semis na
misfits
yes exactly na miss it so it's exactly
what I was thinking about because it
just feels like the ultimate story for
what the split was and what this year
was in North America to have something
really weird like that happen so give me
the team at you think it's gonna be
because you called the scenario no no no
I don't I don't that's one of these rams
it more of these Rando teams yeah I know
I know that but you know like it's like
Vegas how you can like do that side bets
like you have your main bed which is
that this is gonna happen oh your side
bed is like for 20x points call you call
your shot kind of thing but you only
need to put one dollar down on it gold
about um uh yeah I was just in Vegas and
I lost a lot of money not a lot of money
I lost all the money that I gambled at
any given point in time because my luck
was so bad so now I'm really worried
about testing the luck
there's no luck in predictions Travis
well maybe some luck in picking one of
these teams to go well uh I think the
bigger the options right now are
probably optic flight quests or clutch
would you not include echo fox in there
yeah include echo fox mine I'm just
concerned that like they've looked good
this year and so they don't currently
don't they won't have as much of an
underdog story it's not quite as
underdog II as you're talking about with
house t9 looks though like I could very
easily see the favorites by the end of
playoffs being see nine hundred thieves
and TL to go to Worlds or something yeah
I could see fly quest being that what
about TSM well he's a Kia Sun doesn't
count because yeah yeah like they've
been to every single worlds I want to
see a team that shows up no one expects
I know they have bests on the west it's
got to be like the true underdog story
which I think means it's either optic or
fly quest I'm gonna go with optic okay
what's my quest then we'll see twist
shout out happy with this conversation
anyway thank you so much Chris for the
call
all right grabbing another caller wanna
shout out to luck for the hunter bits
tawny tiger 87 or except for two months
and says happy to help gaffer two
industries thank you for the support
looks like Dex Factor 777s on the show
how you doing Dex factor 777 oh you were
really quite what's up with all the
claims did you move away from your
microphone a little bit can you get
closer just say okay is that better a
little bit can you go a little bit
further can you put the microphone
inside your mouth no please don't
is that better yes just speak loudly
okay no problem okay this is about as
good as we're gonna get so go for it Oh
first off were you from I'm from
Hutchinson Kansas no jumps in Kansas was
up with the Kansas callers tonight I do
not know I don't know either
the x-factor 7 7 7 what do you wanna
talk about ok I had two things that I
put the first thing is TSM will not make
playoffs and in turn because of that two
teams will make quarterfinals at Worlds
be okay okay let's break this down this
is an ambitious call that you've you
started it's great because on the show
the twitch chat reacts one of two ways
somebody calls in gives reasonable
thought and take and people say well
this all these collars are boring then
someone like you calls in says something
like this and everyone's like what a
joke hang up whatever these colors suck
I'm glad that you're you're bringing a
little Freddie mark how hard is it for
TSM not to make playoffs this weekend uh
it's actually relatively likely it's
likely they won't make playoffs so
basically the number that everyone's
looking at is nine with two like so a
nine one team
thus far has never missed play-offs some
8 and 10 teams have made it before but
it's never happened before where
someone's got nine wins and they've
missed right now
TSM is at eight wins and what's
interesting is they play optic a team
that is also at eight wins and then both
of those teams play either TSM or team
or IRC one hundred thieves or TL I think
so both those teams play each other and
then play one of the one or two teams so
it's likely that whoever wins that
direct matchup first each other will
then lose their other one the other guy
will lose theirs and then whoever won
that direct matchup goes to playoffs
there's a lot of situations that can
happen but it's basically gonna come
down to that one game or most likely to
come down to that one game and you think
that's there's a good chance that he has
some losses to object just based off how
they've looked how sometimes POA gets
the better of B Erickson everyone joked
about him being as kryptonite is true I
think like TSM is gonna be playing like
really strung out you know like this is
the fucking game that will decide their
whole year potentially like that's a lot
of weight on their shoulders and optic
while it's the same story for them they
don't have the expectations behind them
so I think this is a potential game
where like optic can just like murder
the TSM can TSM make it in a gauntlet if
they nope oh I missed out on that is why
my strong stance I don't know maybe it
was my little mini vacation or something
but I don't know I can't believe I
missed out on yeah so people don't know
you only get ten points for making
quarters in spring that's as far as TSM
got and so whoever makes quarters in
summer gets thirty points and so if new
teams make it like fly quest like optic
they will have more points than TSM
would have had TSM gets knocked out of
the gauntlet instantly yep all right and
optic already owns the one win oh right
yes and this year
if they - OH even if they both in nine
and nine optic will win that tiebreaker
and not even have to go to
yep so there's it's not looking great
for TSM if they lose to optic and
especially how good optic has been
looking at least in early mid game yeah
they've lost games here and there but
they just seem like they're more willing
to take chances and plays even though
they may not be like 70 or 80 percent
plays where that's where usually where
TSM kind of comes in and does TSM like
you said earlier has been playing with
the expectation of that they're going to
make playoffs that they're going to
they're good to go to Worlds and so that
has been kind of holding them back and
yeah they beat they beat last week
CLG who has been struggling and not been
looking good so not that great of a
woman there and then the weird wild game
against hundred thieves but I think it
was more hundred Thebes losing that game
than TSM actually winning that game yeah
an optic being more aggressive and more
willing to take chances and risk yeah
could blow up in their face but I think
they're gonna play with more more chance
to win out of that right I think it's
kind of thing we're like with tsm's
history it's hard to feel like oh this
is a really big game they'll definitely
make playoffs well like if you turn the
nameplates off I like what optic I give
each other like I didn't know who either
these teams were I like what optic tries
to do more than what TSM tries to do
mm-hmm so the X Factor what do you think
the odds what odds would you give like
just with you in your personal opinion
what odds would you give TSM VS I would
say 70/30 optic favored okay okay so
that's not that's like you call it
insane but there's like a pretty good
chance in your minds yes some wins that
they're well I seventy percent I mean
that that's a pretty heavy weighted in
my opinion yeah I agree with it 95%
chance that optics gonna win but there
we go I like that that's much better
let's go with 95 percent thanks to X
Factor for the 95 percent needed that
for the YouTube title mark what is what
adds you
give those teams I would say around
50/50
okay it's a corner like yeah and partly
I guess it's probably my bias and just
like sometimes I think TSM's just winch
shit sometimes so yeah yeah 70/30 is
basically a coin flip Jesus Christ all
right
and then Dex factor you somehow think
that TSM not making it will allow two
teams to go two quarters from a yeah
it just became part of the like if if
parth was on the show would he be
telling you to go write an essay right
now are you one of those folks that
think that like TSM holds any back at
Worlds no it's not necessarily that it
just seems like every year that that
they have went in looking like one of
the best if not the best team and so
they again have a lot of those
expectations on them and that they're
going to do well they're going to get
quarters or they're even gonna hit semis
this year man na is gonna look great and
it's just because they take all that
that you have the week to means and
that's why C nine has been one of the
ones that have been able to go far been
able to make semis a few years here and
there because they go in
oh they're third place so they're not
gonna do anything
oh no one really cares about c9 and oh
wait they're the only in eighteen making
quarters yeah and so you have Team
Liquid who has never been there even
though some of the players have so you
have a world's experience on them which
is going to be great and I know you had
that with immortals last year but I
think the immortals last year compared
to Team Liquid this year is better and
then most likely a hundred thieves again
world's experienced on several of the
players and again they're a noose
they're a new organization so the
expectations aren't really there on them
and even if they don't I mean even optic
has a chance possibly if they make a
great gauntlet run I don't really see
that happening echo fox
I just don't see them making through
gauntlet just because they've been
looking so shaky but they could and even
fly quest I mean they they all have huge
positives and things like that that they
won't go in having those huge
expectations that TSM has had every
single year yeah well I don't know I
don't know how much I want to put on the
TSM the part but yeah I think the
problem is that sounds great all good
and and it's like yeah well TSM they
always flop and so them not but then I
you just have to like that if you set
aside that you don't think about it you
just think about how na is look this
year you look at the crazy roster
changes you look at like a really
unstable summer split it's hard to have
much confidence there so unless somehow
TS I'm not making it makes out all these
other teams better in a way that like
you know because they look kind of not
good right now somehow they're poor like
to you something it gives these other
guys like a buff and maybe that's the
expectations will be low or whatever I
just I don't I don't know if I'm gonna
follow through with you on that
well ts1 gonna go so - we'll make
quarters no no it is a hot take and I
appreciate I like it I like it and
you'll have a chance to bring this up
and everyone will shit on TSM when TSM
doesn't make it to Worlds and then we've
got hundred thieves and team liquid in
the the semifinals battling out to see
who goes to finals decks factor so thank
you so much for your call
thanks for having me on appreciate it a
Matt I got something for you and one of
these callers was talking about it
alright
what you got something for me oh can you
guys all do me a favor can you all tweet
cuz Kelby we you know we all would have
loved to have Kelby on the show I'm
hitting Cal B's Twitter in the chat
right now why he's not here and I want
you guys all click that and tweet at him
and say dota sucks
come on hotline League no no you you got
a negative
it's the obviously with kelpy you gotta
say thanks for having a bad taste in
games hotline league has been much
better since you're gone okay supposed
to put tweet out of him one of those two
things one of the two yeah maybe it may
be the mixed signals the good way to go
Tommy she was on the show Tom shoe where
you calling from hi how you guys doing
pretty good hardy ah yeah I'm doing
pretty good from Hampton Roads Virginia
Hampton Roads Virginia we got a lot of
like East Coast folks he's good yeah
it's like midnight here yeah well thanks
for bringing up what what do you want to
talk about on the show tonight so I
wanted to talk about this is probably
more of a mark see specific question I
want to know any Academy League going on
right now of course you guys probably
already know that you know and the
Academy playoffs are going on this
Thursday right yeah just so everyone
knows yeah yeah you're living letting
twitch chat now yeah of course yeah just
so twitch chat knows and it's Jesus yeah
of course just so you guys know I mean
yeah you're totally casting but yeah you
get it but just you know I like to
consider myself one of a pretty big n a
talent shield like I watched the NA
Academy games
I'm the guy that posts the the you know
the post match threads on reddit even if
they get like five comments and I still
consider it pretty important that we
develop our talent because I'm of the
solid belief that even as long as we
keep importing players like this that
we're never going to get anywhere and in
terms of like internationally like
competing because we need players that
are going to be coming here and that are
motivated to improve and like push these
imports or these already
artyom what's called these already
established enemy players and get them
to improve as much as they can but now
let me just fast-forward a little bit so
let's go past worlds because I can
already tell we're gonna fail this world
it's not gonna work it's not gonna work
I'm just being honest like maybe c9 will
get two quarters or something like that
but that's pretty much it so let's move
on to next split and let's talk about
some of these players that are playing
in any Academy right now and talk about
I want to talk about some of these
players and
who do you let's say mark Z who do you
think is going to potentially earn their
way to a starting LCS spot next blade I
can think of a couple others are really
great my head and a native talent on
clutch gaming it's an ad carry made an
appearance briefly in LCS to split
really light would like to see that guy
come up oh yeah he is absolutely
talented I heard it's kind of not really
good of a team player but they say
mechanical skill ax is just absolutely
insane yeah so there's a lot to unpack
in here one I appreciate that you trying
your best to give like the the Academy
players like the same spotlight or
whatever the LCS players get actually
invest really underrated and you and
very important to a scene feeling like
legitimate is that that you see that
kind of stuff for the academy stuff I
think um there's been a couple names
that people have heard kicked around
like it's actually I think it's really
cool in the Academy scene like if you do
follow it I know for a lot of people
then at the time to follow it that
closely but if you do I think it's
really cool to watch the progression of
a player who starts there and then like
eventually makes their way into the LCS
like I thought what happened with the
old Uniting guys between definitely met
or definitely a zl-- and licorice all
kind of fighting they're come up at
different times on different teams and
stuff was actually like one of the
coolest things I've seen in the league
sinks like they came out on the steam no
one knew who they were for the most part
they did really well but they had other
guys you're like the primary carries on
the team they all started taking on a
bigger workload and then they all got
different opportunities at different
times now no surprise all three of them
are in the LCS and all of them are
actually amongst the top in their
position like licorice is like one two
in top laners with some day basically
and what was last glue with hooni for
the most part you have definitely who
has the cape highest kDa and for the
most part looks really good Hazel's the
latest one onto the scene and he went
through some rough times with the rest
of the Academy guys or with the rest of
c9 but now they're starting to stabilize
and do really well so like I think that
stuff is really cool and I guess I
what you're asking with this question is
like who's gonna be the next batch of
like Academy pros doing that exactly and
even even list of bounce-off what you
just said like even you can even see it
in like more recent stuff close you know
CLG Academy right and they've been
together for like two years right now
right yeah and I remember seeing them at
the beginning because you know when
Academy let League first stuff first
started off and they were going like oh
and five and I'm like oh my god they've
been together a year and these guys
still suck yep yeah and then and now we
actually get to this point and now
they're like eleven and seven and
pulling off some of these absolutely
clean macro plays and I'm like oh my god
I've actually got to see this team like
grow and develop and like go from like
zag and fill and autofilter just like
popping off and I'm like wow it's
actually really cool to see it because
their coach looks like hot sauce Eugene
I'm trying to get their coach on here
right now but Matt's being a dum-dum
yeah and why he's not joining but I
would say so there's a couple teams are
interesting to me because it feels like
they're doing well based off their
synergy like I feel that way about Team
Liquid a little bit we're like yes
vipers like a very carry oriented player
and maybe he can be the next liquorice
but like even liquorice played like a
lot of maokai and stuff sometimes yeah
here yeah I think is I mean they do
target been his ribbon a lot and that
does open up a little bit for you know
pick phase yeah so I I think I would
like to see what happens with him I just
moved
Matthew Perez no Mike jack hello hotshot
GG Junior what kind of show do you think
you look like hotshot at all no I think
it's just because we have a semi same
facial hair and we had the same haircut
that's the only reason why yeah I linked
a picture of him in the twitch chat but
that is you that is me but I don't look
like George not at all uh it's the chin
maybe I think
anyways for people who don't know this
is the CLG Academy coach stuff so you
brought up in here mark now you handle
this I'm in the middle of saying that
like I feel like there's a hole like a
couple teams that have players that are
like we're like good but not standout
players necessarily so I was saying a
little bit on TLA like I was saying
Viper has some pop off games but it
doesn't quite feel like that they feel
like just a really good unit but I'm not
like yeah get sure you get Joey he's the
next guy and I was gonna say I feel
somewhat the same way with the fly quest
academy guys like back when it was JJ
airy and no I always liked JG a little
bit more he of course ends up being the
one that moves up but they kind of
having that feeling to me and I was
about to say
sadly the CLG Academy guys - Wiggly have
that feel to me a little bit we're like
they're all obviously really good
players but I'm not quite sure they're
like the next up-and-comers of proceeds
so I don't know if matt has different
thoughts
I think Otto might be that the second
guy on that team that I would yeah I
don't know what do you think yeah I
think they've been progressing pretty
well and I think definitely in the top
lane my top laner personally has been
doing fallen Banyas popped off with
surpassed expectations I had nothing
when I joined the team I had like no
clue who he was I had like no
information on what type of player he
was so when I joined it impressed me a
lot
he has really good communication skills
and that's like what you need I don't
talk like that's like normally the
hardest thing to teach a top laner is
just how to like communicate properly
alright so - - your own team because
it's you by oh yeah obviously I'm biased
so you don't really count me but uh the
whole Viper thing I think Viper is not
bad but TLA definitely plays around him
really hard so uh I'd like to see him in
a setting where he's not camped 24/7 and
see how he does I think
Volken actually is a pretty I think
Vulcans the one everyone has their eye
on as like next likeliest to move up
yeah so so outside of him because he
feels like a bit of like the expected
one is there anyone else who you think
is next split by the time contracts are
signed we'll find them self-funding LCS
roster the roster list there's no one
that comes to mind immediately I think
the problem is there most of the teams
don't actually like utilize their
academy teams or like practice with them
or try to like breed them which is like
a problem wait what's that last room
what was that I said I feel like the the
main teams don't actually try to like
breed their academy teams to their
fullest potential it's just kind of like
that's hot it's like oh whatever they
don't train them or utilize them to the
fullest is what I'd say
what about c9 since they've done the
most yes c9 nothing done the most under
the forerunners on it its unites done a
good job because I'm pretty sure they
scrim with their maintains pretty often
and I'm not too sure if that's the same
for all the other Academy teams I'm
assuming it's not and they feel the need
not to scream them because it's a waste
of time and they'd rather just focus on
the current like season and stuff like
that so I feel like in the off season
there should be some kind of like camp
or something
were they just uh train that Khadem yeah
like like a camp for the Academy players
actually like train them to become LCS
right in Korea you're not you don't have
to go to Korea pitch pitch your org on
it do you make it the CLG training camp
and you get all the Academy guys make
the starters do that where you say no
how did these Levi's like oh my what
about like would you think Shiro would
be ready to move up or like no I don't
think she rose ready really why not yeah
I think Shiro looks good because he's on
cloud nine I'm not saying it's a bad
player but I also don't think he is a
standout top laner I think he just looks
good because his team is very good so I
don't know I've seen some solid tanking
carry games from him he's definitely
better than most of the top laners but I
don't think he's else
ready and he's definitely not gonna be
taking liquor spot anytime soon
yeah a different team would like try and
pick him up uh right now if I think
about all the teams I would need a top
laner I don't think he would be any
better than any of the top laners so
there's like no point in trying to pick
him up yeah interesting
final question I've been shelling out
Palafox well I did it a lot more when
when there's a 2 and then they went on
this massive fucking tank and now I
don't know where to sit on him because
initially I was like this dude looks
good
and he's like pretty experienced his
first year in competitive but now I'm
like okay your thoughts on him that's a
good I actually think Palafox is pretty
good I think he just needs a better team
in my opinion because you can't sold
carry anymore
and from the way I've seen his gameplay
he can play anchors mid and he can play
like really good control mage styles he
can play leblanc like assassins and
stuff like that and he plays them too
like a pretty good degree I think
Palafox with a little more push could
actually be pretty good okay alright
guys you know I've been telling Academy
I got one that's complete we haven't
lost viewers you know we did a little
bit we were oh mine says 946 it's fallen
mine's is 970 Travis I think you just
hate Academy Travis you're a negative
attitude is reflecting on your internet
that's unreal Travis that's how negative
you are what's the final question wait
wait wait well Mike young ever make it
back to the LCS
uh-uh that's me feelin it's feeling a
little bit like that Shady
yeah a little bit like there's some guys
who like instantly cab holding the DLC
yet allow that's personally for me I
don't think it matters if they switch
out Gregor Mike Young I think Greg is
okay and he just kind of like does what
he has to do but he's not stand out ish
and I think you switching Mike young
you're not gonna get anything better
he's more of a carried style jungler so
Mike Young's pulling in an Ori and just
going from hot stuff to not there at all
I mean that's not what happens when
rookies come in they do what they think
is like soul Akua SH and then teams
figure out what they do shut them down
real hard and then they just don't look
good anymore are we gonna get moving
back Galen I don't think so right now
he's nice but uh I think all the
junglers an academy are pretty much even
besides the ones that stand out right
all right
thanks Adam E or I'll kick I'll ban you
from reddit watch it tomorrow on at 3
p.m. I like West first clutch yep I'll
be there kick me no you can't get mad
out too so people who don't know that
was CLG Academy's coach thank you very
much for coming in mark before you leave
we have like Oh something what do we got
talking about Travis this week we have a
second sponsor for hot line League whoa
that's right so for this week in next
week hotline link also in addition to
Owen by HP brought to you by Amazon
playing shop they are sponsoring the
show as as a means of promoting
streaming IRL which is their new show
that they just put out it features poke
you mean I'm going to put a link to the
video which is now available it debuted
last week on stream I'm gonna put up
that link into the description for this
YouTube video and also
twitch chat while I play the trailer for
that I watched last week you should
check it out
there's a really poignant moment at the
end and mark his friends with pokey have
you seen it yet mark well good news you
can watch it when I put the link in you
can save it here we go
don't talk and our twitch streamer of
the Year Award winner is my name's Iman
I mean I make content on Twitter
Instagram my fans mean the world to me
you really inspire people I shake feel
the shake
[Music]
I feel like I want to take my career
above and beyond just sitting at home
and streaming I could end up owning a
versatile or a makeup line
I am excited and ready
[Applause]
what's with the camera people are they
gonna be following us all the time not
all the time a little bit at the time
[Music]
there's a camera in the fridge
so anyway that was the trailer for
streaming IRL you can go check out that
in the link that I just put into twitch
at clicking through you're looking at
the trailer again or watching the video
all that stuff really supports the show
me and Marc so thank you so much and
thank you to Amazon playa shop for
sponsoring the show Marc I wasn't in
there at all what the hell dude I don't
know if you're in it at all
yeah when I watched that hangover if I
saw you but I'm not over the offline TV
host that much but it's a it's pretty
cool to see that like it feels like did
she shoot at the fuckin Teen Choice
Awards no I don't see that she was she
got invited to the Teen Choice Awards
she was like live streaming the whole
thing and like I was hanging out with
Nick Cannon and shit that's crazy yeah
she's like legitimately breaking into
the main mainstream great she's still
gonna be friends with her marker she
gonna leave you behind
now she's leaving all of us behind you
know I saw I still talking hangout
they're actually really good friends
yeah we actually I got a lunch or no
dinner with her a couple months ago just
to talk about you know like she's been
building yourself as an influencer in
the past year I've been trying to do
more of that instead of you know
building a brand like eSports her
GameSpot or whatever so and she gave me
a lot of really good advice so really
fantastic person but again thanks to
Amazon playing shop for for that and I'm
gonna click the link or put the link in
to chat one more time before we move on
to the next caller sorry good week I
guess I'm way that's that's that's
you're cute
we're still working out the kinks of the
show sometimes ah all right where are we
Joe hizzy subbed perfectly adequate JRE
subbed for nine months I got some 9
months people I'm truly you ly hosted me
with five viewers probably on the way
back from the airport after we were
hanging out in Vegas Opie TSM Frank
gifted us up to X so John Congrats X so
Jen and Bullock Allah gives a sub to
matcom who's been us up for three months
and I don't think it's because he's ever
sucked
I think it's cuz people people sub him X
spiritus axis here
expiry sex great well you hear any echo
or anything every no you sound
incredibly thank God now you can serve
other colors but every time they come in
I hear mark oh well they were way louder
in the waiting room I don't know what
happened you sound great your twitch sub
yes yes I'm a huge huge Travis Gepard
fan
oh wow I didn't know I had fans I just
thought people liked the content you
were young where you come from Northwest
Indiana portage Indiana it's in the
Chicago area okay Chicago area and you
do audio stuff for a living because you
sound or you produced a podcast like how
what do you sound better than I do
well I'm an IT consultant actually and I
do a lot of online meetings and whatnot
so I find it nifty to have a good a good
audio system Saturday good well yeah I
mean it I like that you're doing you
have a great audio system for online
meetings I don't like that I like I like
when my IT consultants are really
scratchy and preferably have some kind
of accent for like the outsource to work
that's what really gets me going yeah
yeah you probably haven't interacted
with IT consultants like myself I'm in
the automation space and like server
files it's like yeah that's why he's
like plug it in your computer idiot yes
yeah I don't think I could do that
working remotely what do you want to
talk about the show tonight
I wanted to say that I think especially
as of this last weekend reapered has
proven himself indisputably to be a top
na coach and I have a lot of reasons for
thinking that and one thing any tops in
a coach or sorry is it eight and it in a
tough word like the in a top in a coach
see I can't say D because I don't see
the behind the scenes for all the teams
if I was able to like hang out with all
the teams and like see the actual impact
I could say one way or another but I
think this guy's proven hands-down
whereas other teams you kind of wonder
if it's like the star power combined
with some good enough coaching shares
with c9 I think we've seen for many
reasons that he's actually a really
top-tier coach and the first thing is
you
this controversial roster swaps at the
beginning you know and obviously they
didn't work out so well for the first
few games but he had a long term
strategy which was to motivate the other
players right and I think we've kind of
seen that come to fruition late where
they're playing really well and even you
know Spence Guerin and golden glue came
back on this last weekend and just
killed it and this isn't just a matter
of like knowing when to swap people out
and getting them motivated either though
I also wanted to add in the fact that
like you know they removed like known
shock collars like smoothie out of the
picture and yet this no matter how he
swaps the roster around now they perform
and they act as a cohesive unit which is
really speaks a lot to the coaching
because if you can swap out like key
players like Jensen and still have the
team perform and smoothie you know is
gone and now they this team is still
able to perform and be on the same page
and I think the only way you can ensure
that that happens while swapping out key
players like that is by really good
coaching and development so mark did
this we can prove reproduce atop any
coach I don't know hmm I don't know
exactly about this specific roster swap
like it was weird if you look so good
no it's Tom tastic it clearly worked I'm
just it was just weird because like they
played Leeson and uh syndra which is
like I know blabber and Jensen can play
that blabber and Jensen have been
playing around each other mid so if
there's like a mid strat like feels like
they could have done it but maybe
they're just like way better at
snowballing either way it worked and it
was obviously like that was kind of some
of the stuff they're hinting it so it's
hard to say for sure but to the the
reapered point like I think what a lot
of people say is like oh man especially
around the benching at the beginning for
motivation is it it feels to some people
I think like a chicken or the egg
argument where you say like oh babe you
a bunch of subs and they kept losing and
then they had to go back to their
starters and their starters saved them
and I'm not sure I don't think that's
the case I think like the bench ings and
all that stuff did kind of put a chip on
their shoulder that maybe they were
lacking because what everyone said about
that that team was like they're too
relaxed they don't take their scrims
like they take their seriously but like
losing doesn't seem to like make them
worry
and so Reaper gave them a reason to
worry and make them work harder so what
I'd say is if this team gets in the
playoffs and goes on a good run and
makes worlds or something then like I'm
with you as like being ready to call him
the best coach because what you need to
remember is in spring split they were
tied for first place and then they
tanked super hard the second half of the
season before bustering out at the fifth
sixth spot and playoffs and like there's
no reason to think that trajectory
wasn't gonna change without him doing
what he did because it was gonna be the
exact five guys coming back so I think
you can say that oh they lost a bunch of
games because reper switching at the
beginning but he did it with the
ultimate goal of motivating the team and
so if this team comes out and does
significantly better than what happened
in spring split then like I do think you
have to credit Reaper for that right in
it I think it's the the fact that the
trends are reversed from the spring
split he's also showing his I guess
prestige or skills as a coach because
you know clearly there are problems that
came up at the end of last sprint last
split and it looked like he was still
identified identified those problems and
was still working on them through the
beginning of this split and had the end
game in mind the whole time and it's
really paying off they're on a six-game
win win streak right now they beaten
both echo fox and Team Liquid in that in
those six games and you know they you
know there's no reason to believe they
can't beat these last two teams either
and in you're right like nothing's like
if cloud 9 itself can actually swing a
strong performance at Worlds or
something is like to be determined still
but I'm the targeted strategy too
recently of saying you know hey you know
we're gonna put
you know the weakness the perceived
weakness I guess I should say I'm not
trying to call off cobalt er here but a
perceived weakness of the middle point
like hey we'll just play through the
middle so hard that there's no way the
bottling can catch up and I I agree with
you on the the Jenson thing but at the
same time the fact that golden glue came
back in and like you know really killed
it like that was a real testament to how
the team as a whole is being developed
like the 10-man and also you know they
subbed out the three people but then
they subbed out Spence Garen later for a
blabber and they keep he keeps making
these roster changes and it's not
negatively impacting the team anymore
like and that that shows to me that
something's going on really well behind
the scenes to where hey I can swap out
this or that player or these two players
and you know zaysan's like completely
new right licorice is completely new and
they both been performing and the only
way I can see so many rookies coming in
and just really wrecking it like that
other than having like an afro or
someone to show them the ropes and I
mean I don't I guess I don't know that
Jensen and sneaky can't like show
rookies the ropes but to my knowledge
they're not the storage sack collars
that like aphromoo and smoothie were it
feels like the only people that are in
the running for top coach the split are
came from Team Liquid prolly from
hundred eaves well then we've got trying
to think through I don't think so dude I
think you're gonna look at teams with
like more improvement going like the
number one in the number two teams for
last
I mean hundred thieves was able to have
a pretty big roster change and maintain
their situation I'm just saying you've
got probably you've got Kane you've got
reapered and then I think you've got
Saint vicious mm-hmm what about a blue
team yes I've Batanes
what if opting knocks out TSM out a
goddamn playoffs on son
you not telling me Zabu teens not
getting a nod or two from somebody oh
he's definitely getting some nods that
could be interesting I am super biased
because I don't know how great of a job
he did blast split right in but this is
coach the split so I know maybe so about
probably about probably being in the
running though he's I mean obviously the
team is doing well and probably has a
lot to do with that if you have a bad
coach I don't I think a team is probably
not gonna be able to resolve their
problems very well because most of us
are like what introverted you know rage
gamers and probably they are too at
their core you know it's hard to work
that stuff out without a good coach but
at the same time we can't discount the
aphromoo factor on that team it's like
you know it for I believe the most of
the duration if not all that six was
coaching CLG prior to this season ephra
mu was on that team and I think it's
really proven through the track record
that mo has some magic for gluing a team
together and that's not to not give
Crowley are probably some credit but
like there's a lot more that's in front
of me that has been done to improve c9
by reapered then then a hundred thieves
by prolly yeah I wish I wish I could
wait a little bit longer than it was
just like a regular season award but
it's tough
if c9 a 29 finished they think they can
go all the way up to third or fourth I
think I don't know I think hands down
one of the better best coaches and then
a even before this split or anything and
I think if this team makes a late season
surge into Worlds or something then you
definitely have to give him that yeah
and I the trajectory they're on right
now there's no reason that thing they
can't do that easily I mean if they keep
the momentum and morale up and and
somehow Jensen and sneaky came back to
this to the scene or came back into the
main roster
you know performing you know like I
who's to say that at the beginning of
the split you know
if it wasn't handled right internally
that they wouldn't have just given up
basically and been liabilities for the
rest of the split but somehow even
though you know obviously there was some
controversy and I'm not gonna rehash all
that we've done that on previous
episodes right there was some
controversy on how they handled it but
like as far as the publicity goes but
obviously he took that and turned that
into a positive situation over the long
run and that to me also says a lot you
know yeah he was able to maintain their
loyalty throughout that process to the
point where they came back and worked
hard and so just being like you know
screw this team you know I'm trying for
them hey expert US ex thank you so much
for your call we have to move on to the
next three we got three more people in
about 15 minutes no worries but really
appreciate your take and I think it was
a good conversation yeah any time took a
second for the discord update that was
very confusing to me
all right who else do we got hate can
everyone do me a favor can you just if
you're watching this right now can you
move your cursor over the twitch stream
and then when you move your cursor over
you might see a box that says twitch
Prime just press that button send it
over real ooh after Pat receta 0/1
subbed Thank You atrocity zero one for
the sub let's move on to the next caller
Bard's thresh flight is returning to the
show you've been on before right
Yeah right well I'll come back to the
show Bart specially for you thank you
for being a Twitter prime sub what what
would you like to talk about on
oh sorry remind me where you're calling
from coming
giorgia that's that's right no well I
mean that was the story the last time
real place that was a story of the last
time and I I'm I'm you know somebody who
did live in in Cumming Georgia maybe we
grew up there they would come up with
the Bard's thresh light joke March late
what do you want to talk about on the
show tonight so eSports posted an
article about rights relationship with
their parent
company Tencent yahoo has a 100% stake
and how Tencent's focus they have
minority stakes and blue hole and epic
games which produced fortnight and punky
so apparently there the relationship is
rather rocky because they're spending
more time with those games and making
those investments work rather than
making League of Legends work it's what
the article is basically saying right
and then riot released a statement with
the article saying it's just a moment
wrote it and it's fine and we should say
by the way that the dot article was a
covering a report that came out by the
information which is the outlet that
that released this bigger report
unfortunately that art that site is
behind a paywall so it's hard to get
access to so background information
Tencent and 2008 had about a twenty two
percent investment and right and was
gonna be their Chinese distributor they
bought a ninety three percent majority
stake in 2011 and then in 2016 they got
the whole hundred percent and in 2012 is
when they got epic games before
fortnight was even released yep yeah so
sorry what is your what's your point
I do believe right here it's just a bump
in the road based on $0.10 investments
and stuff that they're trying to get
more and more people just in the eSports
in general and hoping that a helps all
their investments and it is harming
right at the moment but it it won't harm
right in the long term so I I think it's
somewhere in between i I don't think
Mike this is all speculation because
it's the only thing we can we can do
here but if I'm 10 cent you've got right
kind of checking along legal edges been
out for a long time you're probably not
gonna see too much more growth there
they didn't come out with a mobile game
which was a big part of the conversation
this article was that basically like 10
cent wanted to see a mobile alleged
version that never came to fruition so
then 10 cent had a publisher develop it
a lot of ill will be are a lot of
distaste from riot on $0.10 decision to
basically do like a mobile clone of
League of Legends so anyway I think you
know if your 10 cent you're looking at
riot they don't have a second game out
who knows when they're gonna come out
with their second came they're not the
new hotness anymore of course you're
gonna pay attention to pub G and
fortnight and you're gonna pretty much a
slit right do their own thing cuz by the
way like one of the things that the main
article or report talked about is that
the way the relationship is set up
between ten cent right it means that ten
cent can't really dictate or make orders
to riot so you can't even do anything
there you're pretty powerless so of
course you're gonna focus on this other
stuff and I think you know seemingly ten
cent seems really interested I think
they even have a stake in activism
publicly traded company so yeah so you I
think you know their investments in
these other Casey Mears want to be like
the Google of video games this sort of
my take and so of course you're gonna
focus on this other stuff that doesn't
mean that the story I do think that
there is some not great feeling between
riot and ten cents and certainly like
the evidence of riot setting up an
office in Shanghai to try to serve their
own fans in China whenever ten cents the
distributor there that's just like it
looks weird so I agree it's a bump in
the road I don't think that like 10
cents planning on shutting down right or
anything like that anytime soon but I do
think that that article was pretty
interesting yeah I think it's one of
those things where often the truth is
like somewhere in the middle you know
and I'm sure it's not like oh my god
League is dying for tonight fuckin ten
cent doesn't care about right anymore
but I also think it was more than just
like uh yeah that was an unfortunate
miscommunication yeah and one of the
things that's interesting to know about
the context for this is like the report
that came out but from the information
which is like a Business Journal so the
context for all this was about
Tencent acquiring a company and having a
lot of bumps in the road with that
company that company being write games
here and so just sort of like a
conversation an interesting piece around
like the flaws in that acquisition so
that's the context here I'm sure a lot
of people want to like make it out to be
something way bigger and I think there
are interesting conversations to have
out of it but that's mostly what that
report was about so but yeah I think
it's it's I'm happy you called in about
a part slash light because it is
interesting
does affect us right the conversation
that report about you know revenue
perhaps falling from Riot Games how does
that affect the eSports well maybe
defects eSports buy more events being in
studios and more events and less red
shows and your audience we're all
eSports by just getting all the big ones
that are out now just grabbing more and
more people into just general eSports oh
yeah it may not watch us it'll bring
more credibility at the very least yeah
Travis a question for you how much do
you think about like the e the eSports
pulling back on that stuff is about
franchising coming in and like you now
need to run more like a business because
like profit sharing and I think that is
a red herring that right loves to bring
out and say like well we've got to be
financially responsible to our partners
the reality is that all these partners
are losing money hand over fist on spot
on player salaries that balloon during
the offseason and they're they would I
think they would much rather see riot
pit on bigger events to allow them to
get sponsorship and to grow right now it
feels like right it's pulling back on
their eSports investment and so when you
have just given this company ten million
dollars under the idea and you're losing
money it feels bad when they decide to
pull back on their own end that is my
take at least I don't I don't think that
the owners are happy that right is doing
smaller events and are are seemingly
trying to cost save maybe it's a great
pot yeah thank you so much for the call
unfortunately need to move on to or in
the Tyler's but thanks for having me and
thanks to Amazon and omen by HP thanks
thank you
two more callers to go eight core Lulu
dropping the sub haven't seen core Lulu
in the chat for a while eight months
though he's been loyal
those entire time think he core Lulu for
its up and for supporting all the
content creators by sharing their
content on reddit I think that's really
cool of you we've got a couple more
people to shout out as well bunker King
subbed and mr. get owned LP sub thank
you
those individuals win for mark here no
we lost one caller apparently we've only
got one more
someone dipped his mic wasn't working
and then he disappeared
okay well maybe they'll figure it out
all day Peyronie's Regan is here Alden
is that a kpop star in your profile
picture on discord yeah okay yeah so
you're one of those recall front called
I've called before I'm from Hawaii okay
Oh from Hawaii yeah what well thank you
I'm jealous which island allahu allahu
kana hot here
well like sweating all over but it's
honey that's summer what what would you
like to talk about on the show tonight
so I was gonna call about this like way
before the summer spot even started and
I was predicting that tl hundred thieves
and c9 wouldn't make it to Worlds and at
least all of them would make it to
quarters
and now that we're not a week nine I
feel like that my prediction is kind of
coming to you at the moment but it's
like it's pretty likely to come true so
this is your victory lap not yet I don't
wanna get too excited okay so you still
think so sorry your original take was a
senior and can make it to quarters at
least like at least one of the three
teams that I said was making it to
Worlds wouldn't make it to his quarters
okay did you did you make this on the
show or tweet it or anything um I was
just I disliked as my clawed take like
before the before the summer split
started and I was just like China get it
out and so was this on the show there or
are you just kind of like talking this
this wasn't on the show because I was
just unlucky and didn't get me read
sorry hey guys my bad I missed it I
don't hold it against you guys so your
friend gotcha
okay I was hoping that we had pulled you
really when I had just forgotten and
then you're gonna be like look at
episode this I said that
fuck y'all ah damn it ah good sorry
about that
which of the three teams do you think
will be the one if you had to guess
right like based how they look right now
to get out of the groups um see nines
looking on fires writes jc9 um I'd say
TL if there was just like only two but
it would be nice as identified as a
nation to see all of them make it all
our groups hmm I don't know I kind of
agree with CNI and they at least feel
like they're doing the most interesting
stuff
I like their kindred zilean shit yeah
blackbirds blabbers insane and like the
whole zillion play from Johnson that's I
don't he hasn't lost on zillion rank
three times twice with kindred once with
Nocturne it does feel like a very c9
storyline for them to do very well yeah
just feels just like every c9 storyline
sense basically they were super dominant
in like 2013 2014 has been like we don't
know if they're gonna make it hope they
made it yeah the Gatlin just feel like
this feel like lightning is just like
striking twice for them yeah or maybe
four or five times flora yeah maybe it's
just gonna keep going on forever you
just like they just do bad for one split
and they just want fire for the next and
then you just make it two worlds and not
on maybe they'll win so you called
hundred thieves are you excited for them
at all worlds I mean I'm they're
actually like my favorite team but like
I feel like there's this curse that I
hold with myself that if I have a
favorite team that vultures like choke
so you don't you don't believe in your
favorite teams anymore but not because
of them but because of you yeah this
little pool getting excited for Katie's
it oh yeah speaking speaking I'm excited
that they're making the worlds but I'm
keeping that excitement to a minimum
yeah what a good idea I think 400
thieves I they're probably at least I
think they'll make it but they're my
least exciting team for worlds
I think they're like slow grindy style
just won't translate at all - group
stage play unless they get like a really
nice group and who really knows at that
point but like assuming you get the
typical like decent Chinese team a
Korean team and like a wild card or
something or maybe a European team like
I just don't see them being able to pull
that off
yeah so I'm actually not excited at all
400 thieves yeah and I was I was really
bummed out when they treated off videos
so I'm not really sure if they'll they
do that well in playoffs either but I'm
still holding on to my predictions Alden
do you know a twitch viewer named odwin
villain God does not ring a bell okay
they claim that they live right next to
you so I'm not I'm not sure well he's
saying it's voter Michels neighbor hobo
der Michael do you know a person named
voter Michael hmm no okay well all these
people why all right no loved Alden
I appreciate the predictions I'm
interest to see what happens it sounds
like you're a very unlucky person so I I
think well I hope I hope I hope all
right very good
very good well thank you so much for the
call hey thanks for having me on
yeah okay last caller okay here we go
motorboat all right uh one more person
should pop in here any moment a bubble
collie gives us up to Ethan
thank you for gifting us up to Ethan
mark is still trying to figure out this
guy's microphone it might be the end of
the show might be the end of the show
but are we oh hi some vice are you work
is your microphone working I think so
yep it is fantastic where are you
calling from someplace that South Korea
from South Korea damn what's up how's it
going what are you at you know just out
of curiosity are each you live in South
Korea born and raised or do you like
over there no I just sent has been the
summers with my family I got a school in
America gotcha were you from it where do
you go to school in America mmm sorry
what's that you cut out like this Texas
okay very good
well what do you want to talk about
those show tonight some place I want to
talk about how I believe that lie it
should remove the import restriction
specifically for the NA LCS now that
they have a franchise system oh just in
general they should be able to import
however many players they want from
anywhere I think I think what happens
some places like when you first talk
we'd miss so like your short answers
kind of get lost but some vice the
question I would have for you was what
would happen to EU LCS at that moment um
I'm sorry can you repeat that yeah what
would happen to EU LCS if we didn't have
an import rule in North America so like
you LCS as not as many problems when
attracting players and picking up new
talent we saw it with that Kurata
I think riot Blastoise pulled up a
couple weeks ago when he showed how like
players in it but relatively na doesn't
so even then I think when you moves to a
franchising system they can also have
their import restriction removed but
isn't there a world where we just import
all their most famous and good talent
erratically that can happen but honestly
I find that doubtful at best why do you
find a deathful all the good players
that ultimately end up like importing it
and moving over they only moved over
after they basically hit their prime and
once and stuff and then they move over
like when do you think about like this
Korean players only move when they start
doing well and like now had some money
to make gotcha right but I think the
point would be like if you start pulling
some of the biggest and best names the
other ones kind of want to be playing
with them and so if I'm an EU player and
like perks is gonna go over to na and
he's like yeah I'm gonna meet back up
then and Nifty and we're gonna remake g2
we need a top laner is Wonder not also
like okay fuck I'm going over there too
because I'll get the same or better
money as well and now all the talents
over there and then this is this
avalanche like even if that does happen
I'm like Sarah Lee a bad thing because
overall for Lee competitive this on like
an international scale people have to
perform better because now they're
competing with everyone for the same
spots well I think what you're
suggesting here is not lifting the
import rule and you're really suggesting
just merging EU and na basically it's a
bad thing at all
merging like you might be like not right
now but like if you ever gets to
franchising I think like na and you if
they could like catch they should be
attached gotcha huh you down for far no
I don't think so I think the import rule
has proven to be successful in the u.s.
I think Erin north
I think we've gotten the right amount of
players to keep us vaguely relevant on
the world stage while also making sure
that we have some like homegrown heroes
as well and I like as much as I enjoyed
lmq I do think in a world where we just
have a ton of money and can import a
bunch of people and team owners obsess
over success you couldn't have been a
pretty bad world right so like I think
right now there's a lot of incentives
for players that come over here from
Europe or from Korea to build their own
brand and especially learn English they
learn that from competing or from
playing with the teammates who are
mostly
native North Americans anyway I I'm not
a big fan of opening up the import
situation and I think that it would feel
really bad if the only way we were able
to become ever become competitive on the
world stage is if we just import all the
best players from every other place even
though that's a meme we don't really do
we do some of that we don't do all of it
in a world where we're just like well
we've got all the top teams in Korea
competing in the NA LCS now like what
what are we what's what's the point of
that even then when you look at like
other games where they don't have import
restrictions like looking at overwatch
League like theoretically everyone in
overwatch League had the chance to pick
up like a only Korean team ultimately
out of like the 12 teams in the league
only like big three we're all Korean
yeah so even then it's like when
presented with the opportunity because
it's not good for their brand because
like that smash like well that's like
super good for like winning tournament
money like that's not way a way to build
a brand so if you look at like golden
Guardians they did a similar thing where
first split they decided not to pick up
any imports because they're like we're
going to be the NA only team yeah I'm
just not convinced that teams will
continue to do that like golden
Guardians wanted to be the NA only team
and then they picked up an import and
their second split
and them and seal gr out of worlds
already so I just like and I hear you on
the overwatch League thing my problem
there is that there are not existing
tantalizing leagues and players in
groups of people to pull from already
like theirs in the LCS overwatch League
was like this brand new thing I realized
that there was some competition over
there in Korea that was already
happening but I don't I don't think that
we will see III think that the danger is
much greater in doing something like
this and opening it up yeah I think to
Travis this point like in overwatch
League it's it's literally the only
league in the world so they they can't
really put an import rule and without it
being kind of unfair whereas in the Liga
legend see and each region has their own
scene and it's about that region
performing against the other regions
when it comes to international play so I
think it's two different ecosystems and
unless you're just gonna make like one
super league in North America or
something like I know it does feel weird
to just lift that but I'm sorry that you
are not on the show some vise at the
time when Cal B's on the show because
Kelby would love this idea he's all
about just importing players making us
the best through spending money that
type of thing so I'm lucky but thank you
so much son vice for your call
thanks so much yeah have a good one and
thanks for calling it all the way from
Korea that's crazy Mike I don't know if
people some people were started here but
Kobe is just screaming his head off from
the other side of this wall here he's so
loud so funny yeah okay well whatever
whatever get me outta here Travis is
10:07 I got allowed to play maybe fail
or mine because I'm leaving in three
seconds if you don't start this outro
mark what do you want to say thanks so
much for watching guys there's nothing
else added what you guys thanks so much
for watching my fans and our fans means
everything to us also huge shout-outs HB
by omen
I went by your screen I do that purposes
a whole outro that was just facetious
you got anything plugging anything
you're promoting nope nope just to check
out the Academy League tomorrow team
find all the hot new talent coming to
the LCS next year and actually big THANK
YOU to omen by HP I appreciate it a lot
and thanks for Travis for having such a
great channel and Greek community thank
you Mark
I'm tired from Vegas I hope this I think
the show is good but boy golly gee I
hope next weeks has a little bit more
energy because it felt it's just I ran
it was a weird show like there were all
these it was like a checklist of random
stuff that's so much crazy stuff I wish
yeah here come no no I can't I agree
though hopefully when when the playoff
things hit there'll be a lot of
reactions to like people who miss and
shit like that and it'll be a more like
unified theme where this was kind of
like here we go yeah very good well
thanks everyone for watching this has
been hot line League episode 40